# ETL Project

Our goal is to look at a few national statistics about happiness and financial wealth. We will be doing this by looking at a few polarizing data sources. Annually Forbes releases a list of the richest people in the world. They give some information, including the country of their birth and their total accumulated wealth. Similarly, annually, the World Gallup Poll releases a world happiness survey, that scores countries on a variety of factors to determine the happiness of the average person in each country. Lastly, we have some more general data from the World Bank, that tells us the general income levels and trade statistics for various countries around the world. We thought it would be interesting to look at how these data sets compare to one another. 

**Extraction**

Luckily for us, the wonderful people of the internet give us csv's of the data. For the [Forbes Data](https://www.kaggle.com/alexanderbader/forbes-billionaires-2021-30), we are given a lot of information on over 2000 billionaires internationally, including their industry, and country they primarily do business in. For the [World Happiness Report](https://www.kaggle.com/ajaypalsinghlo/world-happiness-report-2021), we are given the index they use for determining where countries rank on the list, as well as some of the statistics that influence the ranking. Of course, this is a survey of people, so some of the statistics aren't hard numbers, but are instead a little more opinionated. For the [World Development Indicators](kaggle.com/worldbank/world-development-indicators), we are given some more concrete data on economic development of countries around the world. This data is cultivates by the world bank, and includes more hard data, like income levels, and trade data. 

**Transformation**

The transformation for most of the data was the same for all of the data sets. Each data set contained around 20 columns, but many of them were statistical systems specific to each data set. From each, we made sure to extract the country name, which is what we will be using as the core query tool in our final database. We then chose columns from each that seemed most relevant to our end goal. From the [Forbes Data](https://www.kaggle.com/alexanderbader/forbes-billionaires-2021-30), we specifically took out the names of the billionaires, their source of income and some basic family data. From the [World Happiness Report](https://www.kaggle.com/ajaypalsinghlo/world-happiness-report-2021), we took the score they used from each country, as well as life expectancy and some other measures of happiness they surveyed. 

**Load**

Our final database uses the country names as the primary key. It is a relational database hosted in SQL which allows us to easily make queries about how the upper 1%, the average person, and the average happiness of a country are related. We chose this model because it was the simplest way to easily make comparisons with our data, given how large some of our sets are. We felt that individually coding a non-relational database when two of our data sets had over 300 columns could lead to us having to do more debugging than what was necessary. With the way our tables relate it is easy to look at any of the given countries and compare to any of the other statistics in any of the other tables, and by extension, we can make some easy data comparisons between all the different kinds of data. 